---
layout: post
author: Vincent
tags: security consensus
---

As new flaw in the Solana consensus protocol will be presented in four days [1], it might be the right time to discuss the importance of formal methods.
Classic blockchains had a hard time being adopted in production. When the largest bank of Australia asked me to do some consulting work, 
I had to inform them that the way they were using Ethereum was flawed as we managed to hack a copy of their setup [2]. 
After we reported the vulnerability to both Geth and Parity security teams, they both acknowledged the problem but it took some time for 
Parity to implement our counter measure. It is thus not surprising that the traditional finance industry has been slow at integrating blockchain 
to their production system. We discuss the importance of the problem and how we tackled it with formal verification.

The crux of the problem is that the consensus problem at the heart of blockchain is a complex problem. Some of my colleagues have worked for four 
decades on this problem. I have only worked for two decades on this problem, but I still started way before Bitcoin came out. 
The first time I looked at how the traditional finance industry was using blockchain was when I talked to R3, that at the time were using Ethereum. 
After some experiments, my student and myself came to the conclusion that one node of their network could easily steal the assets of all other partners 
of the consortium. This work was the first blockchain work ever published in the largest scientific conference of the dependable community [3].